well for more on this let's bring in
Abdullah alaran his associate professor
of history at Georgetown University here
in qat and a specialist on history of
the US policy towards the Middle East
thanks again for being with us first of
all what do why do you think that we
haven't seen another ceasefire deal what
does it come down to essentially yeah I
mean it's it's an excellent question
because I do think that we've been
having the same discussion for months
now about you know the failure to reach
this agreement we know what the
parameters would look like we know
exactly what the outcome is supposed to
be uh the problem I think is that we we
have this false framing of this being a
a conflict between two equal Waring
parties and in fact what we're really
witnessing is a genocide being committed
by one side against a defenseless
essentially besieged population and
historically we've never seen genocides
come through these kinds of negotiated
settlements what really needs to be
there is a political will from
International actors that would
essentially stop Israel from what it's
doing and we haven't seen that the
United States continues to to say
concerned right that speaks in these
kind of very vague terms and yet it
continues to arm Israel just the same
day as this massacre we saw $3.5 billion
worth of weapons approved yet again to
Israel to be able to continue to commit
these crimes just on that I mean we saw
uh President Biden the say exactly the
same thing that we've heard time and
time again we want to bring this war to
a close we need a ceasefire deal why
don't you think that there is the
political will especially from the
United States to because like you say
they do have the power to get this done
if they really really wanted to well I
mean it's a it's a complex question
because there are domestic political
factors of course that this in many ways
is an extension of us domestic politics
in which of course support for Israel
has always proven very beneficial for
elected officials um and then of course
there's the sense that uh the United
States as a whole tends to see itself
very much in line with Israel being a
regional hedgemon it's of course
supported it ever since its foundations
has continued to arbit has continued to
protect it using its un Security Council
veto over many decades and sees it very
much as a a strategic asset in the
region despite of course all of the
horrific crimes that it's committed over
over many
decades we also heard that in that story
there that it's in netanyahu's best
interest to prolong this war but surely
it would also be a political win if he
was able to get uh more of the captives
back to Israel like we saw in November
well I mean when we actually pull back a
bit and and we look at essentially what
is the um you know desired outcome of
this massive kind of Total War that's
being inflicted on Palestinians in Gaza
and of course even in the West Bank as
well um it is about uh completing a job
that has been uh in progress for let's
say 76 years going back to the original
neba right that this is much more about
the mass displacement of millions upon
millions of Palestinians this is about
the killing of tens of thousands and
maming of probably hundreds of thousands
more um this is about accomplishing much
more broader goals than something like
the return of of captives which of
course has has been given given very
much secondary importance to this uh to
this government right now talks are
meant to get underway later this week
between qat Egypt the US Israel and
Hamas in some way shape or form I mean
do you hold out any hope that anything
positive is going to come out of those
um so far it's been unlikely right
because the the Israelis of course have
uh actually undertaken attacks against
the people they're supposed to be
negotiating with and of course have have
not faced any significant pressure have
not faced any real backlash for any of
the the um actions that they've taken
and so it's unlikely to see any material
outcomes from these kinds of
negotiations what there really needs to
be is external pressure um exerted in a
very kind of uh emphatic way more than
anything we've seen up to this point
thank you as always for coming in and
really talking us through these main
points it's Abdullah Al Aran thanks so
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer